All right so now that we have our button all working it's disabled it's showing the searching message.
I mean this was kind of the simple stuff it's time to dive in into the actual Bluetooth meet.
So the first thing that we want to do is we want to be able to set up Bluetooth.
So let's go to our concrete where we're setting up the list view the status fuse search button all that
stuff.
We're going to take our Bluetooth adapter.
I'm going to say this should be equal to capital Bluetooth adapter not get default adapter.
Now with this in place this will allow us then to go ahead and work with this Bluetooth adapter and
really at the end of the day the thing that we want to do is we want to say Bluetooth adapter that start
discovery and this will go out searching for Bluetooth devices.
Now in order to get this to work there's a little bit of code that we have to run here and looks like
for whatever reason we're missing a permission here so we're going to come back to that in a second.
But well we've got the error message let's go ahead and just cover that now so you can see we need to
have the Bluetooth admin permission.
So let's go ahead and open up our manifest here.
And this is going to be a user's permission.
So and so uses permission and we want Bluetooth admin just like that.
OK.
So once we've added that should see that air doesn't disappear.
Great.
The next thing that we need to do is we have to create something called an intent filter.
So with this Bluetooth adapter once we start searching for things we're going to get a lot of messages
telling us about you know what sort of thing we've gotten you know how we want to respond to it.
And so if we create this intent filter it can help us sort of manage what it is that we're looking for.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a new intent filter what is called lowercase and then filter and
let's give ourselves some space to type here.
And this is going to be equal to a new content filter.
And with this we just want to say what sort of actions it is that we're looking for so we can say intent
filter that add action and we'll go ahead and just for example type out Bluetooth adapter dot.
And one thing that we look can look for is action state changed so we don't want connected connections
state change we just want action.
All caps state change.
That's one thing that we can look for and I'm just going to go ahead and copy and paste this a few times
might not end up needing all these but I just want to have enough that we can work with a big one here
is going to do capital action found.
It's like you and have to type that out so that I can whittle that down.
And that's not a Bluetooth adapter that's on Bluetooth device so bluetooth device.
We are looking for action found.
Excellent.
And that tells us whenever we found a new bluetooth device as far as the adapter stuff we have to look
now for action and we want to do discovery started.
And the last one is action.
Discovery finished.
So these are the different states that we're looking for look like had or actions looks I have an extra
one so I'll go ahead and delete that.
But these are the different things that will tell us you know hey we got something back.
Here's how you should you know do you want to do something about it now in order for this intent filter
to work we have to register it.
So the step that we're looking for is to register receiver and we're going to have to pass in a receiver
object and then we're also going to pass in this filter that we just created and we called that our
intent filter.
So the next step for us is now we have to create this receiver.
And so we're going to go ahead and do this up on its own.
And so this is essentially just creating a property but there's a whole lot that's going into this property
so in fact let's just go ahead and do it right up here at the top we're going to say private fine and
all and we're going to be creating a broadcast receiver that we're just going to call our broadcast
receiver and we're going to set this equal to a new broadcast receiver.
So with this you can see we should auto automatically get this on receive function here.
And this is basically saying hey whenever we get one of these actions you need to decide how you want
to take action.
And so I'm going to go ahead and put a semi-colon there for the time bein.
Let's just go ahead and see if we can't figure out what actions that are there are that we're getting
so I to say string and I'm going to call make a new string called action and we're going to set that
equal to the intent.
And get intent there.
Dot excuse me no we already have an intent here we have a lower case and to go on there.
You can do this intent dot and then we want to do get action.
And that's going to give us back that string.
And with that let's go ahead and just print it out.
And so I'm going to do a log here and what I'm going to log is the particular action that is that we're
getting back.
And we'll just go ahead and type in action there.
So with that in place let's go ahead and well we're not done here we have this broadcast receiver.
But then we have to actually go ahead and do something with it.
So remember I register a receiver we're going to pass in that broadcast receiver and then that should
fix those errors.
So now we're ready to go ahead and check this out on our device.
So I'm going to go ahead and run that androids and or studio seconds to pull this up let me get vizor
ready to see this.
So here it comes.
We are going to have our app open up and oh we have an air let's go ahead and check that out.
So dive into log cat and see what we've got here.
We're not seeing anything specific right now to our app.
So let's go ahead and run this one more time.
We're going to be paying a little more a little bit closer attention here to see if we can't figure
out and look now it's for Bluetooth finder.
Here we go this is a nice looking air.
So unable to start activity
component info Java security need Bluetooth permission.
OK so we apparently have not asked for enough permission.
So we did Bluetooth admin.
I think we also need to go get just straight up Bluetooth or go ahead and ask for that as well.
All right let's go ahead and try this one more time.
Run this app
and here it is point up we're going to keep an eye here on Lague cat and the app opens up without destroying
itself.
But I want you to notice what we have coming out here.
And so we see that we get these actions for example found here.
That's means that it found some stuff and it's still finding some other Bluetooth devices.
I mean it's just.
Yours is going to look completely different from mine because it's you know finding things other than
me.
And look it that we get a discovery finished there at the end so that's telling us hey we went out we
started looking for things at the very beginning it said discovery started and then it's telling us
down here that we have discovery finished.
And then it found some blue tooth devices.
So that puts us at a great position to know that we are getting back some info but then we need to be
able to pull the info from that and sort of handle everything appropriately.
So I just want to do one quick fix here before we move forward and that's that I want to make it so
that when we have finished doing the search that we can sort of give back the button that we can re-enable
that and we'll get rid of the searching thing and may replace it with something that says finished.
And so we're going to go ahead and in this on receive we are going to do an if statement and the if
statement that we're looking for is we want to check what the action is.
So we're going to say if an inside of our parentheses here we want to compare the bluetooth adapter
dot and we're going to check for the action.
Discovery finished remember that's the one that says hey we've finished looking for all the different
Bluetooth devices we're going to see if this equals.
And then we want to pass in this action string that we had just pulled out.
So we're going to go ahead and put action right inside of there so if that's the case that means we
have finished our search which then means we can sort of do the reverse of what we had here.
So I'm just going to copy these two lines of code pasted inside of here instead of saying searching.
It's going to say finished and instead of this being false it's going to be true.
So then we can you know allow the user to hit that button again which then makes me realize we've done
all this work to create an intent filter and all this stuff yet we want to register the receiver and
do we want to start this discovery when the user hits the button.
So I'm actually going to cut this line of code and I'm going to move this to search clicked OK.
So with that let's go ahead and try out the new app here and I'll go ahead and bring up vizor for this
one.
What kind of log cat lurking here in the background so that we can see that as well but we'll go ahead
and get that view up here comes the apps are going to hit search.
Now it says searching and eventually it's going to be every time that it you know finds something inside
of here.
You know every time it's something is found it should be updating the list for you.
That's going to come later.
But we want to see that when this is finished that this will be done saying searching and we'll say
finished and then we can hit the search button and look at that.
It finished up and now we could click the button and do this process again.
So we are at a great point here we're finding some information about Bluetooth devices around us.
We realized when it's over but we still have the task of being able to identify those particular Bluetooth
devices and then getting them to show up inside of a list view.
We're going to cover that in the next lecture.